# What GA Does Differently to help you succeed in your career

What is the difference between learning in a coding bootcamp vs university courses?

We are skills first, we focus on skill building. Universities typically focus on theory first education. 

## The focus is different

#### Most traditional education focuses on
- You get grades and a degree - that degree and transcript are used to help you get interviews/work
- learning theory
- memorizing things
- being a good test taker
- completing detailed tasks that are very clear on what you need to do and exactly how to do it
- You are assigned a grade by someone else judging how you did
- rewards for esoteric knowledge (usually bonus questions)
- competition over cooperation - top grades get priority
- Practical skills like lab time/learning to use common office tech is minimal
- group work/soft skills is often also not a priority 

#### GA SEI focuses on
- you learn skills and build projects, you use the projects and your work in outcomes to be the best job candidate you can be. You use the skills you learned in class to impress potential employers with the code challenges they supply. Nearly no one cares if you have a certificate of completion. No one cares about any grades
- exposing you to new concepts - showing you what you don’t know so you know what to learn/follow up on
- learning how to be an independent learner so you can keep growing post course
- learning how to do things/build things, solve tasks
- solving problems, working with ambiguity
- coping with feelings of frustration
- working with others/ being a part of a community
- collaboration - most of you will not be applying to the same jobs - you all are all over the country with different interests, you are not in direct competition with each other so you can help each other out and help everyone get better
- pass/fail - you grade yourself, what you put in is what you get out of the course
- learning above and beyond base materials better prepares you for interviews
- soft skills to help you succeed on the job
- Just enough theory to get you up and running and giving you the tools to know the next steps
- Lots of time to practice

### How Our Approach is Different

#### We have a 3 step process to learning:

**Imitation** - first you just do as the instructors do - you code along. You likely don’t understand everything that is happening. It is normal to feel some confusion and feeling like you would not be able to figure this out on your own

Do as we do.  I would advise this for any tutorial you follow as well. When you learn by imitation just name all your variables the same, use the same technologies, the same file structure. As you code along if something breaks, you will be able to solve it if you have followed along. If you have deviated it will be much harder to find where things went wrong/ 

**Assimilation** - now you work on labs and hw that are similar to what we did in class. Things should start to click. You will likely not be able to do the activities without referencing the notes. This is normal.

It is ok to try different variable names and filenames here, it is ok to experiment a little to help solidify what is going on. It should still be very similar to what we are doing

It is not possible in a 3 month course to teach everyone every last thing about every topic. It is also likely that most people will not remember every single detail we do go over. It is also likely you don’t need to know every single thing in order to be a web developer and build impressive things. 

To start preparing you for independent learning and building the skills you need to keep growing post course, we will give you small tasks beyond what you learned in class. It will be up to you to google/look stuff up and figure it out.

**Innovation** - project time, using the foundations you learned with us you will build a project. You will use the basic tech we taught you and continue to add new things to make your vision come together. This is most like being on a job. You will be given tasks to create something, no one is going to tell you what to google or how to do each little thing, you will have some guidance, but a lot will be up to you to figure out. 

Because you’ve already been practicing looking up some small things on your own and incorporating your own solutions with lab and hw you will be more ready to tackle this bigger project.
